docs/README.md, before:

# Developer Documentation

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [Day to day](#day-to-day)
  - [Start the application server](#start-the-application-server)
  - [Stop the application server](#stop-the-application-server)
  - [Destroy all the things](#destroy-all-the-things)
- [Working with OAuth](#oauth)
- [PHP Linting](#phpcs)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Address already in use](#address-already-in-use)
  - [OAuth Error retrieving temporary credentials](#oauth-error-retrieving-temporary-credentials)
- [See also](#see-also)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Quickstart <a id="quickstart"></a>

1. Clone the repository

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:wmde/wikidata-mismatch-finder.git
    cd wikidata-mismatch-finder
    ```

1. Install dependencies with composer (requires composer 2+)

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

    **OR** use docker to install dependencies

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" \
        -v $(pwd):/opt \
        -w /opt \
        laravelsail/php80-composer:latest \
        composer install --ignore-platform-reqs
    ```

1. Copy default environment variables

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

1. Start the application server with Laravel sail

    ```bash
    ./vendor/bin/sail up
    ```

    **HOT TIP!** Add the following alias to your `.bashrc` or `.profile` for easier command execution

    ```bash
    alias sail='bash vendor/bin/sail'
    ```

1. Generate a unique app key with artisan

    ```bash
    sail artisan key:generate
    ```

## Day to day <a id="day-to-day"></a>

### Start the application server

```bash
sail up
```

**OR** if you don't want to see live logging, start it in detached mode

```bash
sail up -d
```

### Stop the application server

```bash
sail down
```

### Destroy all the things

**DANGER!** Not only does this remove all downloaded images - which will result in some setup time when running `sail up` again, this will also **delete** all the data volumes for your application, removing all data from the database.

```bash
sail down --rmi all -v
```

## Working with OAuth <a id="oauth"></a>

In production, this application relies on wikidata.org's OAuth capabilities in order to authorize and identify users. Since it is not ideal to test in the production environment, we recommend creating your own personal OAuth consumer credentials for testing purposes, in order to develop locally.

1. Register your local testing app against wikidata in the following link:

    [OAuth Consumer Registration](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:OAuthConsumerRegistration/propose)

1. Fill in the following fields in the form as follows (see [screenshot](gallery/Screenshot_2021-06-28_at_18-06-22_OAuth_consumer_registration_-_Meta.md) for example):
    - **Application name:** Make sure to include ***test*** in the name of the application, so that it is apparent for reviewers in the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) that your consumer is meant for testing purposes.
    - **OAuth protocol version:** Leave this field as is. This application uses OAuth1.0a.
    - **Application description:** Fill in a description for your application, to make review easier.
    - **OAuth "callback" URL:** Make sure to fill this in with a ***localhost*** address, with the port you would be running this application on (if not using the default port). This should be identical to the `APP_URL` in your `.env` file.
    Please also make sure you tick the checkbox next to "Allow consumer to specify a callback in requests and use "callback" URL above as required prefix."
    - **Applicable project:** This field should be set to `wikidatawiki`.
    - **Types of grants being requested:** Make sure to check the first radio button - "User identity verification only, no ability to read pages or act on a user's behalf". This will speed up the review process.

    The rest of the fields can stay on their default values. Don't forget to check the disclaimer before submitting the form.

1. Once the form is submitted, make sure to write down your consumer key and consumer secret in a safe place and fill in the details in your local `.env` file:

    ```bash
    #...

    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<your-consumer-key>
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-consumer-secret>
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CALLBACK_URL="${APP_URL}/auth/callback"
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_BASE_URL=https://www.wikidata.org

    #...
    ```

1. As soon as you receive the email from the WMF team that your consumer is approved, you may start testing your application by logging in through your local instance's home page.

## PHP Linting <a id="phpcs"></a>

The application uses `phpcs` to detect code format violations.

To run phpcs: `sail composer run lint`

To fix style errors automatically run: `sail composer run fix` 

Note: Laravel uses the [PSR2](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/) Standard which expects camel caps method names. So you might get the error: `Method name my_method() is not in camel caps` if you scaffold your application. The recommendation there is to change the method names to camel case.

## Troubleshooting <a id="troubleshooting"></a>

### Address already in use

#### MariaDB

**Problem:** Sail refuses to start with the following error.

```
ERROR: for wikidata-mismatch-finder_mariadb_1
Cannot start service mariadb: driver failed programming external connectivity on endpoint 
wikidata-mismatch-finder_mariadb_1 (dbd1f278da0a5edb416b7875f224b83d1f2c08feac6e9a31d01d28567b83b4c7):
Error starting userland proxy: listen tcp4 0.0.0.0:3306: bind: address already in use
```

**Possible Explanation:** This error most probably occurs when you already have a local system-wide instance of MySQL or MariaDB running on the default port `3306`.

**Solution:** Set the port to something other than `3306` using the `FORWARD_DB_PORT` environment variable.

***While running the app:***

```bash
FORWARD_DB_PORT=3308 sail up
```

OR ***In your `.env` file:***

```bash
##...
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=http://localhost

FORWARD_DB_PORT=3308
##...
```

#### `laravel.test`

**Problem:** Sail refuses to start with the following error.

```
ERROR: for wikidata-mismatch-finder_laravel.test_1
Cannot start service laravel.test: driver failed programming external connectivity on endpoint 
wikidata-mismatch-finder_laravel.test_1 (0fa137072f412614077154ca7927cbb0ca2f3df5474879bb5e8e33f15a1683e3): 
Error starting userland proxy: listen tcp4 0.0.0.0:80: bind: address already in use
```

**Possible Explanation:** This error most probably occurs when you already have a local web server running on the default port `80`.

**Solution:** Set the port to something other than `80` using the `APP_PORT` environment variable.

***While running the app:***

```bash
APP_PORT=1337 sail up
```

OR ***In your `.env` file:***

```bash
##...
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=http://localhost:1337

APP_PORT=1337
##...
```

### OAuth Error retrieving temporary credentials

**Problem:** The local server returns this error on clicking the log in link.

```
League\OAuth1\Client\Credentials\CredentialsException
Error in retrieving temporary credentials.
http://localhost/auth/login
```

**Possible Explanation:**

If, after following the steps in the [Working with OAuth section](#oauth), you are getting this error - this can be due to either misconfigured consumer keys, a wrong app url, or simply an attempt to authorize a consumer that is still pending WMF review.

**Solution:**

1. Make sure your `MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID` and `MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` are correctly set to your consumer key and secret in your local `.env` file.
1. Make sure that your `APP_URL` is set correctly to your localhost address and the port your application is running on (if running on a non default port).
1. Double check to see that the WMF has emailed to approve your localhost OAuth consumer, if they have not responded yet, please wait patiently, as the review process might take a few hours.

## See also <a id="see-also"></a>

[Laravel Sail](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/sail)

[Laravel Installation](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/installation)

[Laravel Configuration](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/configuration)

[OAuth For Developers - MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/OAuth/For_Developers#Registration)

Commit message:

Integration Testing (SQLite Mock) (#15)
* Add first feature tests

* Add testing documentation to Developer Docs

* Run phpunit tests with in-memory sqlite db

* Add feature tests for api and web routes
and rename AuthToken test

* Add Sanctum to tests and assume all users can upload

* Check if file is stored in tests

* Add github action for running tests

Co-authored-by: sihe <silvan.heintze@wikimedia.de>
Co-authored-by: gtzatchkova <guergana.tzatchkova@wikimedia.de>

Bug: T286053

docs/README.md, after:

# Developer Documentation

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Quickstart](#quickstart)
- [Day to day](#day-to-day)
  - [Start the application server](#start-the-application-server)
  - [Stop the application server](#stop-the-application-server)
  - [Destroy all the things](#destroy-all-the-things)
- [Working with OAuth](#oauth)
- [PHP Linting](#phpcs)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
  - [Address already in use](#address-already-in-use)
  - [OAuth Error retrieving temporary credentials](#oauth-error-retrieving-temporary-credentials)
- [See also](#see-also)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Quickstart <a id="quickstart"></a>

1. Clone the repository

    ```bash
    git clone git@github.com:wmde/wikidata-mismatch-finder.git
    cd wikidata-mismatch-finder
    ```

1. Install dependencies with composer (requires composer 2+)

    ```bash
    composer install
    ```

    **OR** use docker to install dependencies

    ```bash
    docker run --rm \
        -u "$(id -u):$(id -g)" \
        -v $(pwd):/opt \
        -w /opt \
        laravelsail/php80-composer:latest \
        composer install --ignore-platform-reqs
    ```

1. Copy default environment variables

    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    ```

1. Start the application server with Laravel sail

    ```bash
    ./vendor/bin/sail up
    ```

    **HOT TIP!** Add the following alias to your `.bashrc` or `.profile` for easier command execution

    ```bash
    alias sail='bash vendor/bin/sail'
    ```

1. Generate a unique app key with artisan

    ```bash
    sail artisan key:generate
    ```

## Day to day <a id="day-to-day"></a>

### Start the application server

```bash
sail up
```

**OR** if you don't want to see live logging, start it in detached mode

```bash
sail up -d
```

### Stop the application server

```bash
sail down
```

### Destroy all the things

**DANGER!** Not only does this remove all downloaded images - which will result in some setup time when running `sail up` again, this will also **delete** all the data volumes for your application, removing all data from the database.

```bash
sail down --rmi all -v
```

## Working with OAuth <a id="oauth"></a>

In production, this application relies on wikidata.org's OAuth capabilities in order to authorize and identify users. Since it is not ideal to test in the production environment, we recommend creating your own personal OAuth consumer credentials for testing purposes, in order to develop locally.

1. Register your local testing app against wikidata in the following link:

    [OAuth Consumer Registration](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Special:OAuthConsumerRegistration/propose)

1. Fill in the following fields in the form as follows (see [screenshot](gallery/Screenshot_2021-06-28_at_18-06-22_OAuth_consumer_registration_-_Meta.md) for example):
    - **Application name:** Make sure to include ***test*** in the name of the application, so that it is apparent for reviewers in the Wikimedia Foundation (WMF) that your consumer is meant for testing purposes.
    - **OAuth protocol version:** Leave this field as is. This application uses OAuth1.0a.
    - **Application description:** Fill in a description for your application, to make review easier.
    - **OAuth "callback" URL:** Make sure to fill this in with a ***localhost*** address, with the port you would be running this application on (if not using the default port). This should be identical to the `APP_URL` in your `.env` file.
    Please also make sure you tick the checkbox next to "Allow consumer to specify a callback in requests and use "callback" URL above as required prefix."
    - **Applicable project:** This field should be set to `wikidatawiki`.
    - **Types of grants being requested:** Make sure to check the first radio button - "User identity verification only, no ability to read pages or act on a user's behalf". This will speed up the review process.

    The rest of the fields can stay on their default values. Don't forget to check the disclaimer before submitting the form.

1. Once the form is submitted, make sure to write down your consumer key and consumer secret in a safe place and fill in the details in your local `.env` file:

    ```bash
    #...

    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=<your-consumer-key>
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=<your-consumer-secret>
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CALLBACK_URL="${APP_URL}/auth/callback"
    MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_BASE_URL=https://www.wikidata.org

    #...
    ```

1. As soon as you receive the email from the WMF team that your consumer is approved, you may start testing your application by logging in through your local instance's home page.

## PHP Linting <a id="phpcs"></a>

The application uses `phpcs` to detect code format violations.

To run phpcs: `sail composer run lint`

To fix style errors automatically run: `sail composer run fix` 

Note: Laravel uses the [PSR2](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-2/) Standard which expects camel caps method names. So you might get the error: `Method name my_method() is not in camel caps` if you scaffold your application. The recommendation there is to change the method names to camel case.

## Testing <a id="testing"></a>

The Laravel framework supports two types of testing: unit and feature tests. In contrast to unit tests, feature tests will boot your Laravel application and therefore are able to access your application's database and other framework services. Mismatch finder uses an in-memory SQLite database for testing, so that the feature tests will leave your mariadb instance untouched. You can find the config settings for sqlite in `phpunit.xml`:
```
    <php>
        [...]
        <server name="DB_CONNECTION" value="sqlite"/>
        <server name="DB_DATABASE" value=":memory:"/>
        [...]
    </php>
```

Simply run `# sail artisan test` to start both unit and integration tests:

```
$ sail artisan test

   PASS  Tests\Unit\ExampleTest
  ✓ example

   PASS  Tests\Feature\ExampleTest
  ✓ example

  Tests:  2 passed
  Time:   0.16s
```


## Troubleshooting <a id="troubleshooting"></a>

### Address already in use

#### MariaDB

**Problem:** Sail refuses to start with the following error.

```
ERROR: for wikidata-mismatch-finder_mariadb_1
Cannot start service mariadb: driver failed programming external connectivity on endpoint 
wikidata-mismatch-finder_mariadb_1 (dbd1f278da0a5edb416b7875f224b83d1f2c08feac6e9a31d01d28567b83b4c7):
Error starting userland proxy: listen tcp4 0.0.0.0:3306: bind: address already in use
```

**Possible Explanation:** This error most probably occurs when you already have a local system-wide instance of MySQL or MariaDB running on the default port `3306`.

**Solution:** Set the port to something other than `3306` using the `FORWARD_DB_PORT` environment variable.

***While running the app:***

```bash
FORWARD_DB_PORT=3308 sail up
```

OR ***In your `.env` file:***

```bash
##...
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=http://localhost

FORWARD_DB_PORT=3308
##...
```

#### `laravel.test`

**Problem:** Sail refuses to start with the following error.

```
ERROR: for wikidata-mismatch-finder_laravel.test_1
Cannot start service laravel.test: driver failed programming external connectivity on endpoint 
wikidata-mismatch-finder_laravel.test_1 (0fa137072f412614077154ca7927cbb0ca2f3df5474879bb5e8e33f15a1683e3): 
Error starting userland proxy: listen tcp4 0.0.0.0:80: bind: address already in use
```

**Possible Explanation:** This error most probably occurs when you already have a local web server running on the default port `80`.

**Solution:** Set the port to something other than `80` using the `APP_PORT` environment variable.

***While running the app:***

```bash
APP_PORT=1337 sail up
```

OR ***In your `.env` file:***

```bash
##...
APP_DEBUG=true
APP_URL=http://localhost:1337

APP_PORT=1337
##...
```

### OAuth Error retrieving temporary credentials

**Problem:** The local server returns this error on clicking the log in link.

```
League\OAuth1\Client\Credentials\CredentialsException
Error in retrieving temporary credentials.
http://localhost/auth/login
```

**Possible Explanation:**

If, after following the steps in the [Working with OAuth section](#oauth), you are getting this error - this can be due to either misconfigured consumer keys, a wrong app url, or simply an attempt to authorize a consumer that is still pending WMF review.

**Solution:**

1. Make sure your `MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID` and `MEDIAWIKI_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` are correctly set to your consumer key and secret in your local `.env` file.
1. Make sure that your `APP_URL` is set correctly to your localhost address and the port your application is running on (if running on a non default port).
1. Double check to see that the WMF has emailed to approve your localhost OAuth consumer, if they have not responded yet, please wait patiently, as the review process might take a few hours.

## See also <a id="see-also"></a>

[Laravel Sail](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/sail)

[Laravel Installation](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/installation)

[Laravel Configuration](https://laravel.com/docs/8.x/configuration)

[OAuth For Developers - MediaWiki](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/OAuth/For_Developers#Registration)
